1. Specification-level Choices: Design choices related to the derivation/construction of the SRS. This will only include choices related to domain-relevant expertise (domain-relevant being to the type of background knowledge the problem belongs to, physics, chemistry, etc.). I’m not sure how many kinds of choices can go here, but the specification-level choices “type” might need to be a polymorphic type about the kind of problem the SRS describes, otherwise it does too much. i.e., I think the list of available choices/options is tied to the kind of system being described.
2. Software Requirements → ICO Program Requirements" Choices: Imagine a function that distills an ICO SRS into only the most fundamental parts a computable ICO problem needs. Another way to think of this is about SystemKinds. This function would strip down a SmithEtAl SRS of an ICO problem into just a list of inputs, exports, constraints, and variables, a set of formulas, and importantly: a list of “holes” (i.e., variables with missing formulas). This level will also perform type translations. For example, a Real would be translated to single/double/quadruple precision floating point number, a rational would be translated to a pair of signed integers, etc. The “ICO Program” type I’m imagining contains only “I want to compute these things. These are the bare minimum things you need to know as a software developer. Don’t worry about what any of these numbers really mean.” At this stage, variable descriptions at the SmithEtAl SRS level are used to produce comments on variables (e.g., comment format: “<NAME> [(<UNIT>, [<‘MATH’ TYPE>])]”).
3. "ICO Program Requirements → Code” Choices: This stage is about building programming-language-level requirements, architectural requirements, and corresponding artifact requirements. The kinds of options that would appear here are “Big Picture Software Characteristics.” The “Code” would be a very generic clone of whatever kind of output programming language we’re interested in producing. For example, with an imperative language output choice, it would contain the flow of statements for each module, where variables and type definitions should be placed, etc. One important choice that needs to be made here is where inputs and outputs are placed and captured. Are they bundled together in a record? Etc. This stage removes the connotation of an ICO program, distilling into a virtual, generic set of software artifacts.
4. "Code → Artifacts” Choices: This stage makes the final line decisions. It makes the most concrete choices about the final software artifacts. In some sense, this is where the least interesting choices are, including those about comment style, PL choice and the PL-specific choices, indentation style, module import style/export style, etc. For the variables with holes, assisted manual code snippet creation is necessary, and they would go here. For example, code related to ODEs.

Note: the knowledge in the SmithEtAl SRS might “leak” across these passes. For example, an FR that says that input values must be exported would affect (3). The requirements set at any step can constrain the choices in the later stages.



Partial Evaluation may happen at two stages: software requirements → ICO program requirements, and ICO program requirements → code. Both are sources of error. In particular, for floating-point accuracy, e.g., floating point multiplication and division operate differently in rounding, with division being less error-prone (?) but more expensive compared to multiplication. Source: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4125033/floating-point-division-vs-floating-point-multiplication

This is highlighted through En Route and Glider.
